Objects as API curated example (#7)
realm/realm-dotnet-samples: ObjectsAsAPI/README.md

# ObjectsAsAPI

**ObjectsAsAPI** is a sample MAUI application that shows how to it is possible to use the insertion or update of Realm objects as a way to simulate a backend API call once the objects are synchronized on Atlas. In practice, this example shows how is it possible to create specific Realm objects representing API calls (**objects-as-api**), and how it is possible to use [Database Triggers]((https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/triggers/database-triggers/#create-a-database-trigger)) to handle such calls. 

> For this example application, let us imagine the use case of a repairman that works on ships, where it cannot be guaranteed a stable internet connection. The repairman needs to create orders of all the pieces he needs for his repairs as he goes through the ship. In a later section we will take a look at how the app is structured to handle API calls all within Realm and Atlas Device Sync.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this example application, let us imagine the use case of a technician who works on ships, where a stable internet connection cannot be guaranteed. They need to create orders for all the pieces they need for the repairs as they go through the ship. In a later section we will take a look at how the app is structured to handle API calls all within Realm and Atlas Device Sync.
```

- Create two [Functions](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/functions/#define-a-function):
    - `CreateOrderRequestHandler`, using the code in [CreateOrderRequestHandler.js](AtlasApp/functions/CreateOrderRequestHandler.js)
    - `CancelOrderRequestHandler`, using the code in [CancelOrderRequestHandler.js](AtlasApp/functions/CancelOrderRequestHandler.js)
- Create two [Database Triggers](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/triggers/database-triggers/#create-a-database-trigger):
    - `CreateOrderRequestTrigger`, with operation type "Insert" and "Update" on the collection name `CreateOrderRequest` with "Full Document" checked, and selecting the `CreateOrderRequestHandler` function you have created in the previous step;
    - `CancelOrderRequestTrigger`, with operation type "Insert" and "Update" on the collection name `CancelOrderRequest` with "Full Document" checked, and selecting the `CancelOrderRequestHandler` function you have created in the previous step;

## Application functionality

<p align="center">
    <img src="Images/app.jpeg">
</p>

> The application allows the user to create orders, containing an arbitrary number of items, and possibly cancel them. The main screen of the app (shown in the screenshot) contains the list of the orders on the top part of the screen, while at the bottom it shows the *API Requests* that are used to create or cancel order. The page contains also a button that allows to stop and resume synchronization, to simulate the lack of internet connection.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The application allows the user to create orders, containing an arbitrary number of items, and possibly cancel them. The main screen of the app (shown in the screenshot) contains the list of the orders on the top part of the screen, while at the bottom it shows the *API Requests* that are used to create or cancel an order. The page contains also a button that allows you to stop and resume synchronization, to simulate the lack of internet connection.
```

> Clicking on the "+" button allows to create a new order, while clicking on an order will show its state, and allows to cancel it. Clicking on a request, instead, allows to see its state, and eventually cancel the request itself. For simplicity, it's also possible to swipe on all objects and delete them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking on the "+" button allows you to create a new order, while clicking on an order will show its state, and allows to cancel it. Clicking on a request, instead, allows to see its state, and eventually cancel the request itself. For simplicity, it's also possible to swipe on all objects and delete them.
```

## The API

In this application we want to show how the synchronization of Realm objects can be treated as an API call when combined with Database Triggers.

> For this, we have created `Request` objects, that represents the equivalent of an API call. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For this, we have created `Request` objects, that represent the equivalent of an API call. 
```

To create a uniform shape for all the request objects, we have created the common interface `IRequest`:

```csharp
public interface IRequest<P, R>
    where P: IPayload
    where R: IResponse
{
    public ObjectId Id { get; set; }

    public string CreatorId { get; set; }

    public RequestStatus Status { get; set; }

    public DateTimeOffset CreatedAt { get; set; }

    public P? Payload { get; set; }

    public R? Response { get; set; }
}

public interface IPayload
{
}

public interface IResponse
{
    public ResponseStatus Status { get; }

    // Filled if Status == Rejected
    public string? RejectedReason { get; }
}

public enum RequestStatus
{
    Draft, // The user is still editing, it shouldn't be handled
    Pending, // User confirmed, waiting for backend
    Handled, // Response created
}

public enum ResponseStatus
{
    Approved,
    Rejected,

> }

Reviewer: Don't have super strong opinions here, but we can probably simplify the design a little bit by combining these statuses - we can have a single request status that includes `Approved` and `Rejected` instead of `Handled` and move that info outside of the `IResponse` interface.

Author: Yes, probably it would simplify things.

    [MapTo("_id")]
    public ObjectId Id { get; set; } = ObjectId.GenerateNewId();

    [MapTo("_creatorId")]
    public string CreatorId { get; set; }

    [MapTo("status")]
    private string _Status { get; set; } = null!;

    public RequestStatus Status
    {
        get => Enum.Parse<RequestStatus>(_Status);
        set => _Status = value.ToString();
    }

    [MapTo("createdAt")]
    public DateTimeOffset CreatedAt { get; set; }

    [MapTo("payload")]
    public CreateOrderPayload? Payload { get; set; }

    [MapTo("response")]
    public CreateOrderResponse? Response { get; set; }
}

public partial class CreateOrderPayload : IEmbeddedObject, IPayload
{
    [MapTo("content")]
    public OrderContent? Content { get; set; }
}

public partial class CreateOrderResponse : IEmbeddedObject, IResponse
{
    [MapTo("order")]
    public Order? Order { get; private set; }

    [MapTo("status")]
    private string _Status { get; set; } = null!;

    public ResponseStatus Status
    {
        get => Enum.Parse<ResponseStatus>(_Status);
        private set => _Status = value.ToString();
    }

    [MapTo("rejectedReason")]
    public string? RejectedReason { get; private set; }
}
```

> There a couple of things to notice here:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are a couple of things to notice here:
```
